Add air-gapped environment support docs (#90)
rancher/turtles-docs: docs/getting-started/air-gapped-environment.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Air-gapped environment

Rancher Turtles provides support for an air-gapped environment out-of-the-box by leveraging features of the Cluster API Operator, the required dependency for installing Rancher Turtles.

To provision and configure Cluster API providers, Turtles uses the **CAPIProvider** resource to allow managing Cluster API Operator manifests in a declarative way. Every field provided by the upstream CAPI Operator resource for the desired `spec.type` is also available in the `spec` of the **CAPIProvider** resouce.

To install Cluster API providers in an air-gapped environment the following will need to be done:

1. Configure the operator for an air-gapped environment:
   - Manually fetch and store a helm chart for the operator.
   - Provide image overrides for the operator in from an accessible image repository.
2. Configure providers for an air-gapped environment:

>    - Provide fetch configuration for each provider from an accessible location (e.g., an internal git repository) or from pre-created ConfigMaps within the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Provide fetch configuration for each provider from an accessible location (e.g., an internal github/gitlab server) or from pre-created ConfigMaps within the cluster.
```

Reviewer: we only support github and gitlab for now(same as clusterctl)

Reviewer 2: It said GitHub originally and i changed it, my bad. Thanks @alexander-demicev  and @furkatgofurov7

Author: Fixed now, thanks!

To provision and configure Cluster API providers, Turtles uses the **CAPIProvider** resource to allow managing Cluster API Operator manifests in a declarative way. Every field provided by the upstream CAPI Operator resource for the desired `spec.type` is also available in the `spec` of the **CAPIProvider** resouce.

To install Cluster API providers in an air-gapped environment the following will need to be done:

1. Configure the Cluster API Operator for an air-gapped environment:
    - Manually fetch and store a helm chart for the operator.
    - Provide image overrides for the operator from an accessible image repository.
2. Configure Cluster API providers for an air-gapped environment:
    - Provide fetch configuration for each provider from an accessible location (e.g., an internal github/gitlab server) or from pre-created ConfigMaps within the cluster.
    - Provide image overrides for each provider to pull images from an accessible image repository.
3. Configure Rancher Turtles for an air-gapped environment:

>     - Provide fetch configuration values for `core` and `caprke2` providers in [values.yaml](../reference-guides/rancher-turtles-chart/values.md#cluster-api-operator-values)

Author: @alexander-demicev PTAL
